Here are a few quick tips on enhancing your collaboration
experiences with your stakeholders.
Here are my useful tips.
As appropriate, regular standups please.
The more communication and opportunity for feedback
with your teammates and stakeholders,
the better the collaboration and productive outcomes.
Prepare ahead for each meeting.
Write and distribute an agenda and expected outcomes of your meeting.
Have a clear purpose and outcome for each meeting.
Why have a meeting if you don't know what you want?
Listen and empathize.
Hey, you may not always agree with what's being said,
but listen, empathize,
and try to understand where they're coming from and
why they need what they need.
You will be surprised when you really listen, you can learn a lot.
Document thoroughly the outcomes of your collaborations.
Yes, it's a bit of extra work, but trust me,
it goes a long way in building trust with your stakeholders,
and it shows you listened, it shows you care,
and it shows you are a professional.
This is an easy one.
Just eliminate techie talk unless you're talking to, well, techies.
That really turns off non‑techie stakeholders,
so be self‑aware, and if they don't understand what you're saying,
what's the point?
Here's a few more useful tips.
Provide feedback and notes by the next day.
Don't wait too long on your collaborations.
That could be refined specs, status reports,
updated presentations, and the like.
Deliver information that's in the form that is understood by the stakeholder,
typically in business terms.
Again, avoid techie talk in your documents unless the recipient is technical.
Know your audience and your stakeholders, and try to use their terminology.
Before any collaborations, try and understand who will be attending,
what their role is, and what they want out of this particular activity.
Review or update your stakeholder prep document that we discussed earlier.
Add and update any information to it.
Demonstrate positive encouragement.
Now, don't go overboard, certainly,
but be supportive of the ultimate outcome even if you
differ on the approach to get there.
At impasses, strive for compromise.
Try and never leave a meeting with bad feelings.
If you don't agree and have not arrived at a compromise,
that is okay, put it on the agenda for the next meeting,
but maybe even reach out later after the meeting with a phone call to
further discuss before the next full working meeting.
Always try to create an environment of trust.
Trust is gold.
Don't ever make a decision that would degrade the trust that they have in you.
Remember our analysis framework from the last module?
This is now a best practice for you and your team to use,
so we could name this best practice stakeholder
collaboration tips and add it to our framework.
This works for any business context, certainly.
Every time I create a new artifact in the progress of my
work that I deem important and usable, I add it to my framework, and you can do the same as well.